# python-api-challenge
This assignment challenge focused on Weather analysis and Geospatial Data Visualisation using API (Application Programming Interface)calls for data extraction. There are two parts for the assignment challenge:

1.Part 1: WeatherPy (coding provided in the WeatherPY.ipynb jupyter notebook file)
In this part the weather information of up to 600 hundred random cities were extracted using API requests. Scatter plots were then constructed to visualise the relationship between latitude and weather variables such as Temperature, Humidity, Cloudiness and Wind Speed. Also lienar regression charts were constructed seperately for northern and southern hemispheres to find the strength of relationship between latitude and the different weather variables. Discussions about the relationships are stated in the markdowncells below the relevant regression charts. **Please note that because the data is based on random cities and on live weather information, the output generated by the code would always change every time the code in the cells is executed. My discussions on regression is based on the output that was generated at the time I did my analysis. **

2.Part 2: VacationPy (coding provided in the vacationPY.ipynb jupyter notebook file. 
In this part, data from the first part containing weather information of up to 600 cities  (imported from the 'cities' csv file contained in the folder 'output-data') is used to plot geo map visualisations. The data is then further narrowed down to select only those cities that have my ideal weather conditions for a vacation. The nearest hotels information is also extrated using APi calls for each of the cities to plot map visialisation of relevant cities.  

The data used in the assignment were extracted using API (Application Programming Interface) calls made from the following urls: 
  -http://api.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/weather?
  -https://api.geoapify.com/v2/places
